## The Case for the Use of Animals in Biomedical Research
[@doi:10.1056/NEJM198610023151405]

### Highlights
USING animals as research subjects in medical investigations is widely condemned on two
grounds: first, because it wrongly violates the rights of animals, 1 and second, because it wrongly imposes on sentient creatures much avoidable sujfering.2 Neither of these arguments is sound. The first relies on a mis? taken understanding of rights; the second relies on a mistaken calculation of consequences. Both deserve definitive dismissal.

A right, properly understood, is a claim, or potential claim, that one party may exercise against another.
To comprehend any genuine right fully, there? fore, we must know who holds the right, against whom it is held, and to what it is a right.

Rights arise, and can be intelligibly defended, only among beings who actually do, or can, make moral claims against one another.

The assertion that all animals, only because they are alive and have interests, also possess the "right to life" 10 is an abuse of that phrase, and wholly without warrant.

In our dealings with animals, as in our dealings with other human beings, we have obligations that do not arise from claims against us based on rights.

The issue is one of kind. Humans are of such a kind that they may be the subject of experiments only with their voluntary consent.


but, Can they suffer?" 14 Animals certainly can suffer and surely ought not to
be made to suffer needlessly. But in inferring, from these uncontroversial premises, that biomedical re? search causing animal distress is largely (or wholly) wrong, the critic commits two serious errors.

The first error is the assumption, often explicitly defended, that all sentient animals have equal moral standing

The racist violates the principle of equality by giving greater weight to the interests of members of his own race when there is a clash between their interests and the interests of those of another race. The sexist violates the principle of equality by favoring the interests of his own sex. Similarly the speciesist allows the interests of his own species to override the greater interests of members of other species. The pattern is identical in each case.2

This argument is worse than unsound; it is atrocious

I am a speciesist. Speciesism is not merely plausible; it is essential for right conduct.

The elimination of horrible disease, the increase of longevity, the avoidance of great pain, the saving of lives, and the improvement of the quality of lives (for humans and for animals) achieved through research using animals is so incalculably great that the argument of these critics, systematically pursued, establishes not their conclusion but its reverse: to refrain from using ani? mals in biomedical research is, on utilitarian grounds, morally wrong.

It would be a serious error to suppose, however, that alternative techniques could soon be used in most research now using live animal subjects.

Should we not at least reduce the use of animals in biomedical research? No, we should increase it, to avoid when feasible the use of humans as experimen? tal subjects.

This frankly ad hominem ob? servation aims chiefly to show that a coherent position rejecting the use of animals in medical research im? poses costs so high as to be intolerable even to the critics themselves.

One cannot coherently object to the killing of animals in biomedical investigations while continuing to eat them.

How can the many common uses of animals be judged morally worthy, while their use in scientific investigation is judged unworthy?

We surely do have obligations to animals, but they have, and can have, no rights against us on which research can infringe. 

### Comments

Rights arise, and can be intelligibly defended, only among beings who actually do, or can, make moral claims against one another.
--> Weak position, so babies have no rights? 

The capacity for moral judgment that distinguishes humans from animals is not a test to be administered to human beings one by one
--> He tries to escape, but his argument is already tainted. 

"The issue is one of kind" --> Why is the human species the master kind? Why is the species concept that relevant? 

The first error is the assumption, often explicitly defended, that all sentient animals have equal moral standing --> This I tend to agree. 

All the utilitarian arguments pro research assumes _good research_. Is irreproducibility by omission an ethical flaw?

How can the many common uses of animals be judged morally worthy, while their use in scientific investigation is judged unworthy? --> I think there are academically interesting answers to that. Mostly on conservative, natural x unnatural grounds. 

