## The Case for Animal Rights
[@url:https://www.wellbeingintlstudiesrepository.org/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1003&context=acwp_awap]

### Highlights


I regard myself as an advocate of animal rights-as part of the animal
rights movement. That movement, as I conceive it, is committed to a number of goals, including:

- the total abolition of the use of animals in science; 
-the total dissolution of commercial animal agriculture; 
-the total elimination of commercial and sport hunting and trapping.

the pulsing pain of the chimp with electrodes planted deep in her brain is repulsive;

The fundamental wrong is the system that allows us to view animals as our resources.

Philosophers do-to use the jargon of the day- have a right side to their brains. If it's the left side we contribute (or mainly should), that's because what talents we have reside there.

A second possibility is that though both humans and your dog are hurt when kicked, it is only human pain that matters. But, again, no rational person can believe this.Pain is pain wherever it occurs.

--> Nah, bad argument. Actually, it is plainly wrong, as 2 reasonable people might disagree. 

I have, then, according to contractarianism, no duty directly to your dog or any other animal, not even the duty not to cause them pain or suffering; my duty not to hurt them is a duty I have to those people who care about what happens to them.

That is very well and good for the signatories but not so good for anyone who is not asked to sign.

--> Simple: all people matter in the equation. 

And yet it seems reasonably certain that, were we to torture a young child or a retarded elder, we would be doing something that wronged him or her, not something that would be wrong if (and only if) other humans with a sense of justice were upset. And since this is true in the case of these humans, we cannot rationally deny the same in the case of animals.

--> Again, returns to the rights of species x of individuals

A utilitarian accepts two moral principles. The first is that of equality: everyone's interests count, and similar interests must be counted as having similar weight or importance. White or black, American or Iranian, human or ani- mal-everyone's pain or frustration matter, and matter just as much as the equivalent pain or frustration of anyone else. The second principle a utilitarian accepts is that of utility: do the act that will bring about the best balance between satisfaction and frustration for evetyone affected by the outcome

--> I`m not an utilitarian in his view, then. 

This same kind of argument can be repeated in all sorts of cases, illustrating, time after time, how the utilitarian's position leads to results that impartial people find morally callous. It is wrong to kill my Aunt Bea in the name of bringing about the best results for others. A good end does not justify an evil means.

--> This kind of mentality leads to anti vaxxers and anti maskers. 

inherent value have it equally, regardless of their sex, race, religion, birthplace, and so on. My value as an individual is independent of my usefulness to you.

--> What is value, then? Value to whom?

Of course, if it were possible to show that only human beings are included within its scope, then a person like myself, who believes in animal rights, would be obliged to look elsewhere.

--> That is the fundamental point of rights theory. But rights theory can be used to justify killing as it could balance rights (e.g. killing one to save ten)

But I would not want to rest my position on a controversial ethical issue on the even more controversial question about who or what has an immortal soul. 

--> Is "soul" even within the scope of rational debate?


All who have inherent value have it equally, whether they be human animals or not.

--> Comer sardinha é moralmente pior que atum, então?

In the case of the use of animals in science, the rights view is categoricaily abolitionist. Lab animals are not our tasters; we are not tl1eir kings. Because these animals are treated routinely, system- atically as if their value were reducible to their usefulness to others, they are routinely, systematically treated with a lack of respect, and thus are their rights routinely, systematically violated

--> E uma visão essencialmente conservadora. 
All great movements, it is written, go through three stages: ridicule, discussion, adoption. It is the realization of this third stage, adoption, that requires both our passion and our discipline, our hearts and our heads. The fate of animals is in our hands. God grant we are equal to the task.


### Comments

- What is an animal?

- Como ele justifica os animais carnívoros? E as plantas carnívoras, cometem elas atrocidades morais? E os animais onívoros? Eles tem direitos morais com a vida, mas náo tem deveres morais com a vida?